What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
In Project One, I'm writing pseudocode for various data structures that I can choose from in Project Two. I then Analyze the various data structures to determine a recommended data structure. I concluded that the given project will need to prioritize adding and removing classes. For this reason, I chose to recommend a vector-based data structure. Even though vector is slower than the others it is not so much slower that a small data set would make a huge difference and the ability to add and remove classes and their requirements would better suit other data structures that are more rigid such as binary tree search. In Project Two I turned my pseudocode into actual code intending to create a program that reads a file containing class data (name, course ID, requirements, etc.). After the data is read the program will create a vector containing specific information for each class. The user can then search for classes in the vector to see that information.

How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
I approached the problem by looking at it from a real-world perspective. The assignment was about a college that needed users to be able to look at course information. It's unrealistic to consider speed when the list of available courses would be so small that the difference in time to read the data would be incredibly small. Instead, I focused on the user experience both for the student and for any administrators. Once I decided on a data structure I looked back on the lessons we had and the weekly coursework that pertained to my chosen data structure (vector). I then wrote the code in an order that allowed me to test the effectiveness of each step. For instance, I started with a main menu that I could access when testing. 

How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
I overcame roadblocks by looking at the work I did on vectors and rereading the material on vectors. I was able to create a solid foundation to troubleshoot. After that, I looked at work from previous courses to implement as many edge cases as possible. One particular roadblock that I ran into was a case where user input was not an integer and instead was a char or string. This would cause the program to infinitely loop the error message without asking for a new user input. Previous work that I had done involving switches allowed me to see what I did wrong. 

How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
I don't have a lot of experience with reading and writing files. This project helped me gain more experience. At the beginning of the course, I had issues with remembering to tell the program to read the files resulting in an error that I could not figure out. Eventually, I did figure it out and that process also strengthened my ability to debug, which I also don't have a lot of experience with. 

How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
I've learned to include way more inline comments to help others read my code. I've also started to think of more effective ways to get processes done. One example is knowing how to decide between the many different types of loops. 
